OsFuscate
=========

Website
-------

<http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=security/osfuscate-change-your-windows-os-tcp-ip-fingerprint-to-confuse-p0f-networkminer-ettercap-nmap-and-other-os-detection-tools>

Description
-----------

From IronGeek.com:

> I was wondering awhile back how one could go about changing the OS
fingerprint of a Windows box to confuse tools like Nmap, P0f, Ettercap
and NetworkMiner. I knew there were registry setting you could change in
Windows XP/Vista that would let you reconfigure how the TCP/IP stack
works, thus changing how the above tools would detect the OS.  I wasn't
sure what all registry changes to make, but luckily I found Craig
Heffner's tool Security Cloak ([sec\_cloak.exe](http://www.irongeek.com/downloads/sec_cloak.zip))
and by looking at it's source I was able to figure out what to do.  The
needed IP stack changes were hardcoded into Security Cloak, but for my
tool I decided to make it easier to update by allowing the user to add
new OS fingerprint profiles as ini files. Yes, I know this is security
through obscurity and the attacker can still probably figure out the OS
on a box by other means, but I still think it's kind of cool to play
with.

MITRE Shield
------------

Applicable MITRE Shield techniques:
* [DTE0011](https://shield.mitre.org/techniques/DTE0011) - Decoy Content
* [DTE0036](https://shield.mitre.org/techniques/DTE0036) - Software Manipulation


Video Walkthrough
-----------------

<iframe src="https://onedrive.live.com/embed?cid=8D6C4317A39E3D29&resid=8D6C4317A39E3D29%2155690&authkey=AJs0KWHQhMurQXA" width="320" height="179" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen sandbox="allow-scripts allow-pointer-lock allow-forms allow-same-origin"></iframe>

Example 1: Setup
----------------

**To Install:**

1\. Copy OSFuscate from the Windows directory of the class USB or from
the Windows directory on the ADHD VM to your desktop

***Basic Configuration:***

2\. Open the folder and click on the OSFuscate Icon:

![](OsFuscate_files/image001.png)

3\. Select Windows 2000

![](OsFuscate_files/image003.png)

4\. Select Apply.

5\. Reboot your system

Example 2: Usage
----------------

Install Network Miner from the Windows Directory of the class USB or
from http://www.netresec.com/?page=NetworkMiner . We prefer to extract
it to the Desktop

Open Network Miner and click on the Network Miner icon in the
NetworkMiner folder:

![](OsFuscate_files/image005.png)

Select your Network interface

![](OsFuscate_files/image007.png)

Click Start

![](OsFuscate_files/image009.png)

When you see your IP Address listed in in the capture pane, select it.

Review the OS details

![](OsFuscate_files/image011.png)

Please note that Satori is far more accurate. However, it tends to work
only on the local network.
